During this series of Screencasts I focused entirely
on using a Mac.
However, pretty much everything I've covered in this series
of Screencasts and everything I will cover is supported
on Windows as well and Linux
but it's more likely that if you're not a Mac user,
I believe you'll be a Windows user.
Now there is BASH for Windows, it's very new.
It's still kind of on the beta
and you have to go through a bit of a process
to actually turn it on
but it is supported by Windows.
This is the URL, I will include a link in the video.
You have to just step through each one of these items
and you go through slowly enabling all the features
inside of Windows to get to this version of BASH.
And once you have it, it's actually very complete.
I haven't come across any problems yet
in my kind of initial testing
and everything that I have recorded in the Screencast
is actually available in this copy of BASH basically.
So go ahead and instal everything here.
The one difference is, there's no brew which is Mac specific
but you do have apt-get update
and that will be the way that you instal programmes
and so on.
So I just want to show you a few things here.
So to run BASH,
let's type in BASH.
It's given me a few options here.
One, I can either run BASH from this command line programme,
I can also run it from the Command Prompt.
So I can go to the Command Prompt, I can bash
and it will drop into BASH for me
or I can just go straight to, oops excuse me,
BASH and it will just launch pretty much the same window.
But you can see when I go into this,
you can see a similar kind of, the same output
that we would see with an LS on the Mac that I used earlier.
So we have the permissions down here,
we have some highlighting for the actual colour
oops, keyboard shortcut's slightly different.
Yep, that's the home directory, I'm can go into foo
and I can go back using shortcuts,
which we saw in the early videos
and I've also created a bashrc file,
I didn't create the bashrc file but I've created
some aliases inside of it.
If you see down here, I've added a couple of aliases
just to say ".." is back up one directory
and you can see that working if i go into foo,
I can type in "..", so that's one of my custom aliases.
We have "ps" which we'll meet later on in the Screencast.
Now there's not many programmes are running
because we're running inside of,
I think it's kind of a virtual machine
running inside of Windows so the only programmes
that are running are actually the thing
that booted this little machine,
the bash instance and the ps that I just ran.
But if I was running other processes inside of this
like a no process or something like that
I would see it listed here as well.
To instal things I would do sudo apt-get instal
and then the name of the programme so it may be git,
or a node...
or a cowsay for instance.
And it'll ask me for my password
and when you go ahead and instal BASH for the first time
it asks you to setup a user, so I've created remy
and I've got a standard password for that.
And it's using the Linux kind of instal method
to instal a cowsay.
So, does it work, I think I have to echo something.
"hi" | cowsay.
Yeah, so we've got pipes going on here,
pretty much exactly what I would expect.
Now there are a couple of, one small quirk I've noticed.
This directory where I've got some files,
maybe I've created an important file inside
of this foo directory.
Where is that?
So if I touch this-is-my-file.txt
and I can go to, the Windows Explorer
and I can probably search for this-is-my-file.txt
and it doesn't seem to find it.
So it doesn't find it in the first place.
And actually finding this directory is a little tricky,
so, excuse me, I'm not used to this virtual machine.
You have to go into IEUser and by default kind
of system folders and special folders are hidden
so we have to show hidden items
and I can go into AppData and then Local
and inside of here it's hidden again.
If I go to the settings and hidden files,
and then scroll down to
uncheck this box here where it says "Hide protected
"operating system files."
Just gonna uncheck that and apply.
And you should see here a few more folders
have appeared and one of them is this lxss
and inside of there is home, remy is my user name,
foo and there we go.
That's the file that I just made.
There's obviously nothing in it
but you can see that's the file I've just made.
If I, hi there, command + S I think it is,
go back here cat this-file,
yes you can see, cat,
you can actually see the contents of the file just there,
it's kind of connecting with my username.
But you can see actually, this does work pretty well.
So if you are a Windows user, you will be able to do
everything that I cover in the Screencasts and more.
So you'll be able to use tools like orc, node,
and all kinds of things.
There's more grep, said, all the LS commands, ps,
I instal htop using brew, sorry, apt-get earlier.
So we will see that in a later Screencast as well.
It's all there, so Windows is as far as I'm concerned
completely compatible.